Reference for de-facto interoperable V8 Stack trace API props (#38048)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/javascript/reference/global_objects/error/capturestacktrace/index.md

---
title: Error.captureStackTrace()
slug: Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error/captureStackTrace
page-type: javascript-static-method
status:
  - non-standard
browser-compat: javascript.builtins.Error.captureStackTrace
---

{{JSRef}}{{Non-standard_Header}}

> [!NOTE]

> > This feature is part of the currently non-standard [V8 stack trace API](https://v8.dev/docs/stack-trace-api). However, due to compatibility reasons, it is de facto implemented by all major JavaScript engines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> This feature is part of the non-standard [V8 stack trace API](https://v8.dev/docs/stack-trace-api). However, for compatibility reasons, it is de facto implemented by all major JavaScript engines.
```

Reviewer: Or maybe (because it would be good to link this ...

```suggestion
> This feature is part of the non-standard [V8 stack trace API](https://v8.dev/docs/stack-trace-api). For compatibility reasons, it is de facto implemented by all major JavaScript engines, and [initial standardization work has started](https://github.com/mgaudet/proposal-error-capturestacktrace).

Author: I would add a link when the proposal lives under tc39 proper, which hopefully shouldn't be long. Then it would be the same situation as `Error.prototype.stack`.

Reviewer: OK. Makes sense - in that case perhaps the first option https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/38048#discussion_r1948289666

The **`Error.captureStackTrace()`** static method installs stack trace information on a provided object as the [`stack`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error/stack) property.

## Syntax

```js-nolint
Error.captureStackTrace(object)
Error.captureStackTrace(object, constructor)
```

### Parameters

- `object`
  - : The object on which to add the `stack` property.
- `constructor` {{optional_inline}}
  - : The constructor where the `object` was created. When collecting the stack trace, all frames above the topmost call to this function, including that call, are left out of the stack trace.

### Return value

None ({{jsxref("undefined")}}).

The `object` is modified in-place with an extra own property called `stack` defined, whose string value follows the same format as {{jsxref("Error.prototype.stack")}}. This property is non-enumerable and configurable. In V8, it is a getter-setter pair. In SpiderMonkey and JavaScriptCore, it is a data property that is writable.

## Examples

### Using Error.captureStackTrace()

> 

Reviewer: Might be worth a few words about what you're doing here, since you're not actually working with errors.

Something along the lines of "This example get the stack track at the point a function is called, removing the function itself from the stack. Note that this would normally be called when constructing a custom error, as shown in the next example.

Author: ```suggestion

The `getStack()` utility function returns the current stack trace at the point it is called, removing itself from the stack. This serves the same debugging purpose as {{domxref("console.trace()")}}, but allows you to output the string elsewhere. Note that it does not construct an `Error` instance for this purpose, but installs `stack` on a plain object, which would be more efficient for our purposes. Normally, you would call `Error.captureStackTrace` on objects intended to be thrown as errors, as shown in the next example.

```

}

function foo() {
  console.log(getStack());
}

foo();
// Error
//     at foo (<anonymous>:8:15)
//     at <anonymous>:11:1
```

### Installing stack trace on a custom error object

The main use case for `Error.captureStackTrace()` is to install a stack trace on a custom error object. Typically, you define [custom errors](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error#custom_error_types) by extending the `Error` class, which automatically makes the `stack` property available via inheritance. However, the problem with the default stack trace is that it includes the constructor call itself, which leaks implementation details. You can avoid this by using `Error.captureStackTrace()`, which allows the stack trace to be installed even for custom errors that do not inherit from `Error`.

```js
class MyError extends Error {
  constructor(message, options) {
    super(message, options);
    if ("captureStackTrace" in Error) {
      // Avoid MyError itself in the stack trace
      Error.captureStackTrace(this, MyError);
    }
  }
}

const myError = new MyError("Something went wrong");
console.log(myError.stack);
// Error: Something went wrong
//     at <anonymous>:8:17
```

> Note that even if you don't call `Error.captureStackTrace()` here, some engines are still smart enough to avoid `MyError` in the stack trace if the constructor inherits from `Error`. Calling `Error.captureStackTrace()` is more important for custom errors that do not inherit from `Error` for some reason.

Reviewer: You could omit "for some reason", but assuming you want it.

```suggestion
Note that even if you don't call `Error.captureStackTrace()` here, some engines are still smart enough to avoid `MyError` in the stack trace if the constructor inherits from `Error`. Calling `Error.captureStackTrace()` is more important for custom errors that, for some reason, do not inherit from `Error`.
```

{{JSRef}}{{Non-standard_Header}}

> [!NOTE]
> This feature is part of the non-standard [V8 stack trace API](https://v8.dev/docs/stack-trace-api). However, for compatibility reasons, it is de facto implemented by all major JavaScript engines.

> The **`Error.captureStackTrace()`** static method installs stack trace information on a provided object as the [`stack`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error/stack) property.

Reviewer: @Josh-Cena Just remembered one more thing - somewhere here we should mention that the stacktrace is not the entire stack - its some amount that is considered relevant to users. Then cross link to say that if Error.stackTraceLimit is supported that can be used to set the max size of the returned stack.

Author: I think this is implied by "follows the same format as {{jsxref("Error.prototype.stack")}}". The reason I want to be handwavy about it is because Firefox doesn't support `stackTraceLimit` and doesn't plan to, so in FF the stack is uncustomizable anyway.

Reviewer: Fair enough. I would have added something anyway, but your call.
